Hello and welcome back to the Python programming course.
Today we finally get to the fun stuff we're going to start off with.
Brazil's Nations.
All right.
We're falling further is you.
Let's jump straight into it.
So we're going to import from a mad plot lib.
We're going to import PI Plaut as usual as BLT actually and then we're going to import seaborne.
So we were I had a bit of an intro to seaborne so Grange important as S and S then we're going to add
a little quick code or a little quick command that will allow us to see resolutions right inside of
Jupiter notebooks so moderately in line.
So these all the standard imports that we do normally.
And then of course we'll also do the warning.
Because as we saw previously some warnings come up we don't want to see them filter warnings ignore
.
All right.
Let's run that and our imports are done.
So what are we going to start off with.
What's the first type of chart that we're going to look at and that is a joint plot.
So let's go ahead and create one joint plots a joint plot.
It's quicker to create one and explain how it looks when we see it in front of us than to try to explain
a farseeing.
So let's go ahead and create one J equals s and s dot joint plot here we're going to pass the data that
equals movies X..
This is very very standard type of format so we were selecting a data set then we specify what colors
we want to look at or what's a variable's critic rating and why it equals audience rating.
Have a look.
Voila.
A German plot is ready and we'll zoom out a little bit so that it fits nice is a bit more.
All right so there's our joint plot.
And so what does the drone pilot show.
So the Tobler got some stats and you can definitely go into a bit more detail knows if you like when
we're going to do that now.
For now we just want to understand how to read the giant plot.
So basically it's a scatterplot as you can see.
The critic creating audience rating scatterplot which shows you how if there's any relationship or dependency
between the audience rating and critique creating as you can see if you draw a diagonal you know on
this chart you'll see that overall the audience rating is above the Dagh all meaning that at a given
critic creating.
So 20 for instance the audience rating it looks like it's mostly above the diagonal so it's higher than
20 so basically that means that the audience is a bit more forgiving to movies.
But as you get into the further further we're here as you get into the higher ratings of the critics
the audience ratings starts to match the critic rating as well more or less then in a joint plot wise
collusion is because you also have these distributions on the left and right and it's a very interesting
solution to visualizing a bi variant distribution here so we've got two variables creator creating what
is rating.
You can visualize them separately and have these distributions.
Or you can visualize together but if you visualise them together then you have the question of where
how do you see the distributions of the individual variables like if you don't look at the top.
This chart you can really tell what kind of distribution you have here and that's why analysts and Darksiders
have come up with this solution of putting these distributions on top and on the right and that allows
you to see very clearly like this one looks like more or less like a normal distribution.
Audience rating what is critic rating it looks more uniform and we'll talk more about that further down
in this part of the course in this section.
And so there's basically a joint plot very easy to create as you can see in Python it's very easy to
create basically one line three parts into your function and you get a joint plot that's thank you very
much to seaborne allows you to create some interesting adulations very simply.
The other thing I want to show you is you can take this joint plot and change the style of the join
plot so if you add a parameter.
Well first I'm going to add a comma and then if a press shift tab.
Why I like Jupiter so much is that it's got these are the main reason I like Jupiter is gods.
Very helpful information so all of this help that pops up is very useful so I'm going to actually first
add some lines and when I click here and some lines below so that we make some space and Africa shift
enter a shipment shift tab I click shift tab you'll see that you can read more about this join upload
function which comes from Seaborn and here it will tell you some parameters so x y Datto we were using
those.
And then here we've got kind and kind you can specify scatter that's a default value.
That's a scatterplot what we're going to do is we're going to change this now to a different value.
So again you can look at other parameters if you like and you can read more about them here.
So if you look at kind you've got some couple a couple of options you've got scatter reg for aggression
resod Cady hex.
So the one we were interested in is we going to look at Hex today.
So go ahead if you like.
Feel free to experiment with those.
But for now we're just going to do the hex parameter.
So let's go kind.
And here we go and you say don't forget the quotation marks hex.
You're on that.
You can see now you've got a hexagon diagram.
So a bit of a change right so you've got that here.
Here hexagon is quite useful because it groups a dog.
So for instance here you you might not see the clusters like this looks like a cluster but you don't
see that really there's a cluster here and you can't really pinpoint the cluster in this area but the
hecks allows you to do that or does that automatically for you so you can see that there is a cluster
or there is a closer and closer and not surprisingly those clusters do are associated with the distributions
here so you can see distribution goes up and this vision goes up here and that's where the cluster is
.
Same thing here you can see this spike in distribution a bit of a spike hence cluster there.
And so on.
So that's it's an interesting type of diagram you don't often see it especially in other programming
languages like an even an art.
It would take some effort to create something like this but that's why you've got seaborne in Python
.
It does simplify a lot of things.
It allows you to create a joint plot hexagon distribution or plot just like that.
Very simple.
So there we go.
Looks like a very interesting chart.
And that is the chart number one that we're going to take to our entire report let's say chart number
one.
All right.
So I hope you enjoyed this a Tauriel definitely have a play around with that.
The joint plots are quite interesting maybe try changing the variables here.
For example try the other numeric variable that we have the budget in millions of dollars so budget
billions.
Also interesting to see what happens if you specify the same variable two times what the distribution
or what the plot will look like.
So definitely play around with that and that will give you some additional hands on exercise.
And I will see you in the next Tauriel.
Until then happy coding